Reviewer: 1

Comments to the Author
I am not sure what the paper at hand is attemping to achieve. Its
title and abstract talk about a big data sanctioned methological shift
and as such it has the characteristics of a survey paper, whereas the
bulk of the paper is about a specific method for cognate detection and
some satellite empirical questions.  The overarching argument that
quantification promises a superior future doesn't come out very well
when the paper is full of hedged or vague claims of the sort that
quantification is supposed to resolve (such and such is useful, may be
useful, works well, experience shows etc etc) and that the authors do
not understand or have not read many of the papers they cite properly.

Although it contains a number of sensible observations it does not really
fulfil the role of a survey paper since it carries much eclectic,
uncritical,
promissory and platitudinal information. Other existing survey papers cover
the issues touched by the present paper equally or better:

List, J.-M. (2016): Beyond cognacy: Historical relations between words and
their implication for phylogenetic reconstruction. Journal of Language
Evolution 1.2. 119-136.

List, J.-M., J. Pathmanathan, P. Lopez, and E. Bapteste (2016): Unity and
disunity in evolutionary sciences: process-based analogies open common
research avenues for biology and linguistics. Biology Direct 11.39. 1-17.

Dunn, Michael. (2014) Language phylogenies. In Claire Bowern & Bethwyn
Evans (eds.), The Routledge Handbook of Historical Linguistics,
190-211. New York: Routledge.

Kondrak, Grzegorz. (2009) Identification of Cognates and Recurrent
Sound Correspondences in Word Lists. Traitement Automatique des
Langues 50(2):201-235.

Levinson, Stephen C. and Russell D. Gray. 2012. Tools
from evolutionary biology shed new light on the diversification
of languages. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 16(3):167–173.

Also on the matter of cognate identification, there's really not much that
stands out in the present paper as opposed to the existing literature (which
the authors are not sufficiently familiar with) but there are some
experiments
in here that are of minor value.

Since I fail to see a major contribution of this paper I think its
publication would be largely redundant. To make the best use of the
contents of it I would recommend the authors to contemplate its
purpose. Is it a survey of big data in historical linguistics? Then do
it properly (define, cite all lines of work, be critical). If it is a
survey of big data in **lexical** historical linguistics this might
make the task smaller. Is the paper about cognate identification? Then
do this fully and leave the more general concerns about computers vs
manual work for elsewhere. Is the paper an enlightenment in general that
you can make use of quantification/statistics if you have a computer
and a lot of data? This is trivial, don't write such a paper.

The paper uses the term 'language evolution' is the narrow sense of
'linguistic change in the last few thousand years' (for which there's
already the established term 'historical linguistics' within linguistics).
This is probably deliberate.

Detailed comments:

* "Dumont d'Urville’s attempt to introduce a quantitative aspect into the
comparison of Oceanic languages (Dumont d'Urville, 1832)."

In the cited paper Dumont d'Urville talks about the distribution of
different
races/language families and their difference in development, there's no
introducing a quantitative aspect. Try reading the originals and cite the
right item.

Also a citation to

Geisler, H. and J.-M. List (2013): Do languages grow on trees? The tree
metaphor in the history of linguistics. In: Fangerau, H., H. Geisler, T.
Halling, and W. Martin (eds.): Classification and evolution in biology,
linguistics and the history of science. Concepts – methods – visualization.
Franz Steiner Verlag: Stuttgart. 111-124.

would be appropriated for the reader who wants to know more.


* The passage "Nevertheless, it seems safe to assume that spoken
languages include a set of core features that are mainly uniparentally
co-inherited with occasional horizontal influences from other speech
communities. Such vertically inherited features range from phonetics
to individual lexical items and entire grammatical structures. Just
like the genotype comprising a biological system has a core subset of
housekeeping genes that form a bundle that is frequently, but not
always, co-inherited, it is likely that language has a core that can
be used to define a vertical descent."

directly contradicts that of the next page

"in fact we shall studiously refrain from privileging a single
co-inheritance bundle as the defining feature of genetic relationship
of a cultural trait such as language"

If you assume that there is a set of core features that define vertical
descent (and you venture to say it draws from phonology (probably not
phonetics!), lexicon and grammar!) there exists such a privileged bundle,
and by the logic of the paper you should be looking for it. Probably
the authors want to say that they do want to privilege a core set of
features for gauging vertical transmission, they just do not know which
this set is, and to find out is a key task.

But one does not need to assume so much as the question has been
studied empirically and there are lots of partial results in various
linguistic papers that should have been cited.

* "Of course no method is infallible. If features are chosen that are
either too noisy to convey retrievable information or that are not
strictly vertically transmitted to begin with the resulting tree might
not depict the actual relationships."

The logic here seems strange wrt to the use of infallible. Is an
infallible method one that retrieves true conclusions from wrong data?

* "This underlines the fundamental importance of basing phylogenetic
reconstruction on multiple, independent feature sets."

I fail to see that the example of Xenoturbella underlines this conclusion.
It just seems to illustrate that one needs to be able to correctly identify
the data used and that the phylogenetic placement of a leaf will be wrong if
not all relevant clades are included in the analysis.

* "Just like language evolution, biological evolution is neither purely
vertical nor completely treelike."

Says the same thing twice.

* "Even in higher organisms, horizontal gene transfer, convergent
adaptive evolution, lineage sorting, and random noise in the data
introduce deviations from tree-likeness in the data"

What is lineage sorting?

* "In fact, even in the presence of other forms of inheritance, trees
are a useful representation of evolutionary relationships whenever
there exists a dominating set of vertically inherited features."

This is a circular assessment (trees are useful when the data is
sufficiently
tree-like).

NB: The use of the term "other forms of inheritance" does violence
upon the term "inheritance". Presumably it refers to the mentioned
cases where "lineages are not well-sorted" but it's never explained
what that means in terms of an evolutionary process and whether it's a
form of inheritance.

* "Nevertheless, they can be very useful to visualize and quantify the
contribution of non-vertical inheritance (Bowern, 2010)."

(I am assuming "non-vertical inheritance" should be "non-vertical
transmission".) The conclusion, however, does not follow from the
citation. Bowern (2010) could have done the comparison between the
borrowable and non-borrowable subset in the absense of any
visualization at all, and the visualization used did not allow anyone
to distinguish between retention/innovation and certainly did not give
any quantification.

* "to stick to a tree-based phylogenetic techniques but express the
potential existence of reticulation or conflicts by measures of goodness of
fit, for example, through low likelihoods in particular branches or a wide
spread in the posterior distributions in Bayesian settings."

This is an important point which, unfortunately, is not developed in the
paper.
It would be great to be told how measuring the goodness of fit of various
tree-models tells us whether a non-tree model fits better or worse. Also,
the
suggested paradigm of looking at the posterior in Bayesian settings
conflates
effects due to the desired quantity (tree-like-ness) and other things
estimated
(branch lengths, rates of change etc).

* "First, it allows us to identify the cases where the underlying
tree-like structure induced by the vertical process of inheritance is
such a strong regularity that it can be recognized and, at the very
least, approximated from the observable data. Second, as the amount of
data increases, it allows one to systematically improve the model
using techniques like ancestral recombination graphs (Hudson, 1991;
Griffiths and Marjoram, 1997; Arenas, 2013; Rasmussen et al., 2014)
well known in the biological phylogenetic literature."

The logic here is unclear. Cf. the comment above that we never actually
told how only using tree-models tells us whether they are appropriate
or not. But suppose we did, then the authors suggest we can systematically
improve the tree-model by extending it to become ARGs. Then why not use
ARGs to begin with? (That would be systematic, rather than ad hoc).

* this gave a very good fit with known linguistic history (Lee and
Hasegawa, 2011; Gray et al., 2009; Dunn et al., 2011)

What is meant by "very good fit"? The whole paper argues we should
use quantification to answer such questions but for some reason
when we need it and it is easy to do, they don't do it. For example
what is the Robinson-Foulds distance between the computational and
"known linguistic history"-tree topologies in the cited papers? (And
why cite these, esp Dunn et al 2011, rather than all studies with
this metholodogy).

* The section "2 Lexicostatistics and language phylogenetic" is mislabeled
because half of it is devoted to non-lexical phylogenies.

* "there have been several attempts to use other kinds of linguistic data
for
the reconstruction of language history"

Several? There have been hundreds. Perhaps the author mean papers with
explicit quantification.

* "learning approaches have been used in reconstructing ancient word
forms"

This information belongs in the section about lexicon.

* "in phylogenetic analysis of typological features (Gell-Mann and Ruhlen,
2011; Dunn et al., 2011)."

There is no machine learning in the standard sense of the term in the two
cited papers.

* "The core or basic vocabulary comprising the Swadesh concepts when
compiled into such word lists is particularly suited for the phylogenetic
enterprise for two reasons. First, it is composed of many items of proven
genealogical persistence (Calude and Pagel, 2011), with some of them
potentially conserved beyond the conventionally assumed 10,000 ybp limit of
the comparative method (Pagel et al., 2013)."

These studies do not "prove genealogical persistence", they are circular in
this respect since they assume families established on the assumption of
genealogical persistence of the very same vocabulary items...

* "Importantly, though cognate judgments made purely from the phonetic
structure captured in these semantically aligned word lists can be
improved with specialized linguistic knowledge, in recent tests on
‘simple’ language families, the difference was found to have no
systematic structure that could bias the reconstruction of phylogenies
based on this data (Steiner et al., 2011; Hruschka et al., 2015)."

Rephrase.

* "This so-called log-odds score is theoretically justified by a simple
model of independent evolution (Durbin et al., 1998; Altschul et al.,
2010)."

I would not be so sure it's theoretically justified in cases where you have
few datapoints (as with small wordlists or uncommon sounds), then a Fisher
Exact Test or something that takes the amount of evidence into account may
be more appropriate.

* "the same for both model"

the same for both models

* p 11 "Basen on this one can proceed to define the total score .."

The text and formulas here are ambiguous as to whether sigma and nscore
are defined of a pair of languages or a pair of words from two lgs.
Presumably
the latter but actually the sigma formula as written contains free variables
that ranged over the full set of pairs between two languages on the previous
page. Formulas are used for clarity so please be explicit as to what is
defined over what and the domains of free variables.

* p 11 ".. words from 11 Indo-European"

Which 11 I-E lgs and why those (and, not, say, a single pair). This matters
as the results should look quite different for distantly vs closely
related pairs of languages.

* P 11 re the peak structure

No explanation is offered as to i) why the peak for non-cognates is
negative appx -2 (rather than 0) and ii) why the Guaycuruan and IE datasets
behave differently.

* "Each cutoff values thus yields a pair of sensitivity and
specificity values that quantify how well the scorebased separation
between cognates and non-cognates performs. It is customary to
summarize the values in the form of the Receiver-Operator-Curve (ROC)
shown in Fig. 5."

It's more customary to present the f-score of the precision/recall
corresponding to the different threshold values...

* p 10-14 on the cognate detection algorithm.

The method described has no conceptual improvment over that of Jäger
(2013), and more generally fails to cite modern and old relevant work
and position itself wrt to relevant work. It makes no advance (or even
mentions) any of the modeling challenges existing such as partial
cognacy, global (all words) vs local (per word) scoring of sound
correspondences, deep vs shallow cognacy, pairwise aligment vs
multiple alignment etc etc and the implications for the presented
algorithm. It is also deceptive in that it fails to mention a
parameter epsilon until in the appendix. It is not an innocuous
parameter since it is related to the size(s) of the wordlists.

Most deplorable of all is that they do with heuristics what was
achieved a decade ago with a much more elegant model with global
scoring and absense of a threshold by Ellison (2007).

Ellison, T. Mark. (2007) Bayesian Identification of Cognates and
Correspondences. Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL Special
Interest Group in Computational Morphology and Phonology,
15--22. Prague, Czech Republic.

Jäger, Gerhard. (2013) Phylogenetic Inference from Word Lists Using
Weighted Alignment with Empirically Determined Weights Language.
Dynamics and Change 3:245–291.

* "Importantly, however, the automatic cognate recognition path
provides these later stages of analysis not merely with a binary
decision of whether or not a pair is a cognate, but rather with a
score that represents the weight of phonetic evidence in favor of
cognacy"

But cognacy is a yes/no property and modeled as such in the work
the authors cite, so the inability to provide a yes/no answer is
incompleteness rather than a virtue.

* "Turkic languages as an example is that relatively comparable
phonetic transcriptions were available, the language family has a
relatively shallow time depth, and words had already been categorized
into probable descendants of common ancestors"

It should be mentioned that i) the results do not necessarily generalize
to deeper families/cognacy and ii) that cognates in the Hruschka et al 2015
come in sets whereas the method described in the paper identifies
cognates pairwise and may thus give inconsistent results of the type
A is cognate with B and B is cognate with C but A is not cognate with C.

* "k >= 3 ..." Such a model would also take care of local transposition"

These were assumed to be so few as to negligible earlier in the paper
so that is not much of an improvement. But if it were important to
capture them, k >= 3 is not necessary as adding transposition operations
to the Needleman & Wunsch algorithm still keeps it polynominal.

* "At present there
is no method to infer sound changes rules directly from a scoring system."

At least cite Holman & Wichmann's paper in Language for the discussion
even though it does not infer the direction of sound changes.

* "Furthermore, the scores are explicitly dependent on the languages
that are compared. Alternative approaches using a scoring system based
on linguistic expertise also exist (Covington, 1996; Kondrak, 2003)
and such models could also be designed to be more or less specific for
particular language pairs or language families."

Later in the paper sound change processes are argued be universal (a
la Ohala) which means that there is a specific answer to the
incertitude expressed in the above passage.

* "A thorough application of the comparative methods requires the
simultaneous estimation of the language history tree, of the
proto-languages corresponding to the interior nodes of the tree, of
the associated regular correspondences, and of the cognates that are
invoked in their support.  This amounts to a comprehensive stochastic
model of language evolution. While this approach is certainly the gold
standard, it requires sufficient data to actually parameterize the
model with sufficient accuracy, and sufficient computational
capacities. While this is becoming feasible at least from a
computational point of view,"

Reference here is needed to Bouchard-Cote's book but, even more so,
a justification for the totally unspported claim that it is feasible
from a computational point of view is needed...

* "In the context of biological phylogenetics it often pays to
subdivide the gold standard inference task into individual components
that can be solved independently from one another.  It is common
practice in computational biology to compute sequence alignments first
and to use them as starting point for the reconstruction of
phylogenetic trees. The reconstruction of ancestral genomes (Pennisi,
2005) and ancestral sequences (Liberles, 2007) is then performed on a
given tree. Inferred trees may then help to improve alignments, which
in turn yield a better tree in an interative manner. In complete
analogy, word alignments can be performed independently of cognate
identification and the identification of regular sound changes. One
may meaningfully start by first identifying regular correspondences
between pairs of extant languages and then use the fact that these
regular correspondences are by definition the result of sound changes
from the same proto-language along the two independent lineages to
piece this information together to approximately reconstruct
proto-languages and then the regularities of sound change."

This is an important question, but unfortunately not prudently
discussed in this passage. Since the components depend on each other,
it is not probabilistically correct to do it in the iterative manner,
and, as argued elsewhere in the paper (p 16) it is not a correct
approach from the perspective of propagating uncertainty.

* "Experience from computational biology, furthermore, shows that it
is often pragmatically favorable to perform as much of the analysis as
possible on directly observable data. For example, it can be helpful
to identify regular correspondences between extant languages as a
first step rather than trying to infer proto-languages and
phylogenetic trees directly."

Please explain what experience from computational biology shows how
this is helpful if not for computational efficiency and expediency? As
the text stands this claim is completelty unsupported.

* "For example, reliable reconstruction of the subgrouping within a
language family or identification of macro-families can be conducted
on the basis of presence and absence of cognates without the necessity
to model sound changes explicitly (Bowern, 2012; Bowern and Atkinson,
2012)."

How do you know the subgrouping in Bowern, 2012; Bowern and
Atkinson, 2012 is reliable? The data is not given, the tree inference
method uses exactly the tree priors taken over blindly from biology
that the present paper warns about, and is squarely at odds with the
flat subgrouping espoused by the earlier non-computational work.

NB: reconstruction of the subgrouping is misphrased, presumbly
just "subgrouping" is meant as there is no reconstruction in
those papers.

* "This is also an issue in bioinformatics, where Hidden Markov Models
have been quite successful in recognizing sequences that have been
acquired by horizontal transfer (Dufraigne et al., 2005).  It will
remain to be seen whether a similar approach can also be successful in
cases of large scale borrowing."

Please explain what this HMM does? (HMM is an extremely general technique
for sequences and it is not obvious how they can be used in the manner
mentioned).

* "Let us consider again cognacy as an example. Given word lists of
two languages, we expect cognates to be much more frequent among words
that share similar or identical meanings.  The corresponding
null-model thus consists of randomized word lists, where words with
different meanings are matched across languages (Baxter and
Manaster-Ramer, 2000). If meaning-matched words are more similar to
each other than words from unrelated meanings—ignoring horizontal
transfer and sound symbolic shared patterns (Dingemanse et al.,
2015)—a statistically significant difference between real and permuted
similarity distributions supports a non-trivial genealogical
relationship between the languages"

This idea is limited by regularities in the meaning space of the kind
discussed in 4.1-4.2 (as well as synonyms). The paper would make an
actual contribution if this was taken seriously for a correct
assessment of number emanating from a permutation test.

* "As this powerful method is still underappreciated in the linguistics
literature, we elaborate on the example in Fig. 6."

I am surprised to learn it is underappreciated. It's been all over the
place in quantatitative linguistics at least since Oswalt (1970)

Oswalt, Robert L. (1970}. The detection of remote linguistic relationships.
Computer Studies in the Humanities and Verbal Behavior 3:117-129.

See also many non-quantitative papers in the long-ranger literature for the
same principle being discussed.

* "Finally, many non-alphabetic writing systems do not directly encode the
phonetics at all."

Do alphabetic scripts do that? Or is segmental phonology rather than
"phonetics" intended?

* "These experiments demonstrate that automated cognate detection is very
robust against small differences in the encoding used for the word
list and thus tolerates occasional errors in the data.  In our ‘easy’
example we found a residual level of about 3% discrepancies"

This conclusion should be qualified by the fact that only closely related
languages were used in the tests. Of course, then a small amoutn of error
drowns in the flood cognates. More interesting would be to assess the
impact in a case where the error amound would compete against a similarly
small amount of cognates.


* "and consonants are perceptually different from vowels in word
recognition (Cutler et al., 2000). The most efficient use of lexical
data for determining deep language relationships, therefore, should
weight the stable words and consonantal identity more."

Is this a language independent result?

* "notion of uniformatarianism"

uniformitarianism

* p 28

There seems to be some confusion of what uniformitarianism, rates and
process mean. If the process is the same but the rates change, then
process is the same and did not change. Uniformitarianism usually
means the assumption that the process does not change, which is an
assumption since there are observations from the present but not from
the past.

* "Based on this data, researchers have argued about the unity or
diversity of Tasmanian languages, with perhaps the most widely
accepted opinion being that linguistic analysis can lead at most to
rejecting the idea that Tasmanian languages constitute a single
linguistic family (Crowley and Dixon, 1981)."

"By using a combination of methods from evolutionary
biology—prominently, phylogenetic inference—Bowern was able to gather
enough evidence for 4/5 groupings (tentatively referred as
macro-families) present in the wordlists that correspond somewhat with
earlier archaeological classifications,"

"Not only did the usage of methods from evolutionary biology allow
Bowern to determine the number and extension of putative genealogical
groups among the Tasmanian languages, but, more importantly, the usage
of those methods lead to a natural quantification of uncertainty—so,
for instance, while the evidence for a common ancestry of two of the
inferred groups (those from Bruny Island and Oyster Bay) is strong,
the estimate of the common root age is extremely imprecise, ranging
from anywhere from 2,000 ybp to 20,000 ybp or more."

These three passages are completely mistaken. The philological work
by Dixon & Crowley 1981 is very similar to Bowern (2012) it's just that
Bowern (2010) probably did a more thorough job (one has to hope, the
data is not in the paper). The conlusions are very similar too, the
only difference is that the strictly quantitative aspects ended in
Dixon & Crowley 1981 with cognate density figures. Just like Bowern
the reserve judgment on many of the worst attested doculects (Bowerns
extended analysis only applies to the subsets with more than 100
items).

All the conclusions in Bowern (2012) quoted in the paper at hand can
be reached with accurate figures of the pairwise cognate desnities and
permutation tests. The phylogenetic methods used by Bowern (2012) were
used wrongly, in ways the present paper warns against. Structure has a
model of admixture which obviously incorrect for the evolution of
linguistic data (where we have trees, as also argued in the paper)
rather than random sampling from a number of pools. (Only in the case
of source mixing may this warranted, and that does concern a few
Tasmanian vocabularies, but that does not motivate its usage for
questions of descent, e.g., inferring the number of families.)
Furthermore the K is not compared to the prior in Bowern (2012)
application and so it not warranted solely by the data anyway.

The number of genealogical groups among the Tasmanian languages was
reached by Bowern (2012) with elementary means: simply "too few
cognates" uniting all groups that are not arguably borrowings/recent
introductions.  If she had followed the phylogenetic method she
(mis)applied the conclusion would indeed have been that they formed
one family spoken 20000 to 2000 years ago. Not 5 families, one family.
Not one family with such and such uncertainty concerning the number
one, but one family with full certainty, only a lof of uncertainty
about its age. That's what the phylogenetic methods she applied says,
but sensibly, she choose to ignore that conclusion (as it springs from
a misapplied monogenetic model, though the does not say that out loud).

* "although some support for the idea still
exists in other contexts (Ehret, 2000; Starostin, 2000, 2013; Holman
et al., 2011)."

None of these paper support the idea of rate constancy, they support
(emprirically) the idea of rate regularity.

The earlier passage btw fails to cite the most powerful paper against
rate constancy (better than Bergsland and Vogt):

Blust, Robert. (2000) Why lexicostatistics doesn't work: the
'universal constant' hypothesis and the Austronesian languages. In
Colin Renfrew, April McMahon & Robert Lawrence Trask (eds.), Time
depth in historical linguistics (Papers in the prehistory of languages
2), 311-331. Cambridge: McDonald Institute for Archaeological
Research.

* "Therefore, one has to correct the p-values of the m independent
tests. In our example, we have 7 languages and thus 30 different
language pairs"

Is the math correct here? 7 x 6 / 2 = 21 according to me.

* "In other words: do data source accessible to"

data sources

* "We have to make one single assumption about paralogous cognates,
namely that they inherit both their phonological form and their
meaning from a common ancestor. Conversely, we assume that a
simultaneous similarity of meaning and phonological form, if not
explanable by chance, can result only from paralogous cognates"

As it is written this is two assumptions. Actually the first is
the definition of paralogous and what you assume is the second
one (that only paralogous cognates have sim in form and meaning).

* "To do this in practice, we compare for each language two samples of
1000 pairs of nonidentical words. We remove identical words with
different meanings since we only interested in paralogs, that is,
words that are distinct, not in words that have simply expanded their
semantic scope."

The removal of identical words is contrary to the stated interest
which was "This element of cognacy across meaning category is
analogous to an important mode of biological evolution—the duplication
and subsequent functional divergence of genes.". Surely identical
words are (always or sometimes) instances of this process. For example,
mouse is an animal and now also a computer device, with its own life
in the different senses (e.g., the computer device can have a different
plural).

* Section 4

It is never declared how synonyms are treated in the IDS and in the
experiments of Section 4 and how prevalent that is.

* p 31-32

The experiment is flawed in that it removes languages like Old Prussian
because it does not show bimodality. Either find the error is the supposed
method or the theoretical property of the data of these languages that mean
they do not apply.

* "several statistical method"

several statistical methods

* Sec 6

The conclusion contains information not in the body of the paper and
should thus be reorganized.

* The so-called North Caucasian family consists of languages in
North-East Caucasian family only.


Reviewer: 2

Comments to the Author
This paper outlines methods and workflows for using large datasets to
perform phylolinguistic analyses. With some reorganization and adjustments
to the writing, this will be a very valuable contribution to the Journal of
Language Evolution. Below are some general comments regarding the
organization and writing of the article. Further detailed comments are
included in the attached file.

In general the writing of this piece tends toward the verbose end of the
spectrum, which in some places muddies the message being presented. I
recommend that the author(s) aim for maximally clear and concise text in
the revision process, especially in sections that present background
information. Some specific comments on writing and typos are included in
the attached file.

The extent to which individual technical terms and concepts are explained
is quite variable and may not in all cases be appropriate for the  target
audience. Some linguistic concepts that most people interested in language
evolution will be familiar with are fleshed out in great detail (e.g. the
notion of basic vocabulary as a more reliable source of phylogenetic signal
than other areas of the lexicon - p. 6), while other terms (including
technical terminology central to the methods discussed) are used without
being clearly introduced and defined (e.g. "pre-alignment", which appears
by p. 9, but is introduced with small caps and sketchy definition only on
p. 12).

The introduction section provides plenty of general background on
phylolinguistic traditions and their relationships to biology, but at the
expense of clearly introducing the content of the article -- namely, the
use of specific computational methods for answering questions in historical
linguistics using large datasets. I recommend condensing the discussion of
the history of phylogenetics and outlining the main focus of the
contribution within the first paragraph or two.

The issues of orthographic representation and level of phonetic detail are
discussed briefly in Section 3.2, and are then re-introduced and discussed
in further detail in Section 3.5. Between the two is a lengthy discussion
of alignment, scoring, tree reconstruction, and statistical tests. This
organization seems disjointed, particularly because the issue of sound
representation is so important to the matter of alignment. I recommend
consolidating the discussion of representations and presenting all
theoretical discussion relatively early in Section 3 (perhaps in the
beginning of Section 3.2, or in a new section in that vicinity). The IDS
example might make more of an impact if it referred back to a single,
concise discussion of representational issues instead of including its own
lengthy introductory discussion of these issues.

Section 3.7 seems out of place and wordier than it needs to be. The point
that computational methods can supplement or assist with traditional
historical linguistics has already been made, including the notion that
they can be used to overcome data limitations (e.g. the  Bowern reference
on p. 13). As the admixture model and NeighborNet methods central to Bowern
2012 aren't directly discussed in this article, it seems like an odd
example to devote so much space to. I would reconsider whether this section
is necessary at all, especially since Section 3.8 segues abruptly back to
methodological matters.
